{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Cambria;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2500;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\keepn\s1\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\kerning32\b\f0\fs32 Before Installing\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\cf1\kerning0\b0\f1\fs28 EXTREMELY IMPORTANT:\cf0\par
\fs18 In order to use DAD you must install several pieces of software that we cannot redistribute legally.  We have included links here that you can use to go directly to the download page for a known DAD compatible version of these tools.\par
\par
\pard\b\fs20 http://downloads.activestate.com/ActivePerl/Windows/5.8/ActivePerl-5.8.8.817-MSWin32-x86-257965.msi\par
http://dev.mysql.com/get/Downloads/MySQL-5.0/mysql-5.0.37-win32.zip/from/pick\par
http://www.php.net/get/php-5.2.1-win32-installer.msi/from/a/mirror\par
\par
Before proceeding you should download these packages.  You should install Perl and MySQL.  Do NOT install PHP until AFTER the Apache installation has completed during the installation script.\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\i\f0\fs28 MySQL\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\b0\i0\f1\fs20 Using the MySQL installer that you have downloaded, perform a typical install by accepting all of the defaults.  If you wish to perform a more detailed installation and configuration, you can choose to exclude the InnoDB database engine since we use the MySQL engine exclusively.  It is not necessary to perform a MySQL.com Sign-Up during the installation though you are welcome to do so.  When asked about configuration options, please be sure to configure MySQL to start as a service.  It is also recommended that you configure the installer to put MySQL in your path.\par
\par
If after 'executing' the installation, it may prompt saying that the service is not enable or there is a firewall turned on. Ensure that the firewall is off of that the port is allowed to communicate. Also, the service simply maybe slow to start, so you should 'retry' on the 'error' window.\par
\b\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\i\f0\fs28 Perl\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\b0\i0\f1\fs20 Using the installer that you have downloaded, please complete a default installation of Perl.  You can accept all of the defaults to complete the installation most easily.\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\b\i\f0\fs28 PHP\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\i0\f1\fs20 AFTER Apache has been installed and when the installation script prompts you to, you should install the PHP package that you downloaded.  \b0 Using the PHP 5 installer that you downloaded, please perform a standard installation of PHP.  During the installation process you should select support for a \b "Apache 2.0.x"\b0  server.  You \b must\b0  also configure PHP to install the GD2, MySQL and MySQLi modules.\par
\par
\b\par
Important DAD Information:\par
\b0\par
Default DAD account after installation:\par
\tab User ID:\tab\tab admin\par
\tab Password:\tab Password1\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s1\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\kerning32\b\f0\fs32 Recommended OS Configuration\f2\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\kerning0\b0\f1\fs20 Install server 2003.  Standard edition is just fine.  If 2003 Server is unavailable, you can certainly install DAD on a 2000 Server or even an XP or 2000 desktop, but the overall performance should be best on a Server platform.\par
We recommend that you set block size of data drive to 64k to allow for better space utilization for the database.  We also recommend that the drive where the database files will reside be configured as a Dynamic Disk so that future expansion will be easily accomplished by simply adding drives to the volume set.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s1\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\kerning32\b\f0\fs32 Unpacking DAD\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\kerning0\b0\f1\fs20 DAD in its current incarnation comes as a ZIP file containing DAD itself, a starter data set and all of the software necessary to get DAD up and running, with the exception of software with redistribution restrictions.  After your target server has been built, the first task is to unpack the DAD suite.  To do this, please unzip the DAD archive into C:\\.  When you have done this you should have a "C:\\DAD" directory structure in which you will find a copy of this file, a "Source" folder, a "Web" folder and a "Jobs" folder.  Once you have unpacked everything, you should progress through this document step by step.\par
\par
If you choose to install DAD into some other source directory or drive, you MUST modify the \ldblquote install_dad.bat\rdblquote  script to reflect the new location and any drive location changes.  You will also need to modify the paths in the various configuration files for PHP, Apache and MySQL in addition to the Jobs scripts within the DAD\\Jobs directories.\par
\par
\cf1\b NOTE:\cf0\b0  If you are installing on a 64 bit OS, you MUST change all of the paths in the installation files and in all of the configuration files that point to \ldblquote C:\\Program Files\rdblquote  to \ldblquote C:\\Program Files (x86)\rdblquote .\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s1\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\kerning32\b\f0\fs32 Installing DAD\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\kerning0\b0\f1\fs20 The simplest way to perform the installation is to, after unpacking DAD into C:\\DAD, start a command prompt, change to \ldblquote C:\\DAD\\source\rdblquote  and run the \ldblquote install_dad.bat\rdblquote  script.  Simply follow the directions as prompted to complete the installation.\par
\par
\par
\cf1\b EXTREMELY IMPORTANT:\b0\par
\cf0 As distributed, DAD has a default password of "All4Fun" configured as the password for the 'root' user in the MySQL database.  If you wish to get up and running ASAP, you might wish to set this as the password for your root user on your SQL server.  Please note that we do not -recommend- this, we simply are pointing out that you might choose to do this.  What we recommend is that you choose a good password and then create another user for DAD to operate with.  This second account should only have rights to the DAD database and tables.\par
\par
After the installation has been completed, you MUST modify the C:\\DAD\\Web\\Config\\dbconfig.php file to reflect the correct IP address (should you choose to install the SQL service on another server), the DAD username used to access the database and the password used by this user.\par
\par
You MUST also edit the C:\\DAD\\jobs\\Log Parser\\Aggregator.ph file.  In this file you will find these lines:\par
\par
$MYSQL_SERVER="localhost";\par
$MYSQL_USER="root";\par
$MYSQL_PASSWORD="All4Fun";\par
\par
You must adjust the server, user and password appropriately to allow the aggregator to access the database.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s1\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\kerning32\b\f0\fs32 Post Installation\f2\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\kerning0\i\f0\fs28 DAD Credentials\f2\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\b0\i0\f1\fs20 Once DAD is installed, there are a few things that you'll need to do to get up and running.  First off, you will need to either create an account under which the DAD Scheduler will run or decide whose credentials DAD will use.  Once you have done this, we recommend that you use group policy in your domain to grant this account the "Manage Security and Audit Logs" right to computers in the domain.  In most installations we would recommend applying this right for all computers, domain servers and domain controllers.  \b\i Please note:\b0\i0   If you wish to import logs other than the Security log, the simplest solution is to add the service account to the local administrators group for all of the systems that are monitored.  There are more difficult ways to add this capability without making the service account an administrator.  We will include details on how to configure these access control lists for Windows logs in a future release.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\b\i\f0\fs28 Starting the Scheduler\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\b0\i0\f1\fs20 If you used the installer script, it automatically starts the scheduler when it completes.  To restart the scheduler in the future (and thereby all of the scheduled jobs including the Aggregator) you will need to run the following commands:\par
\par
cd \\DAD\\jobs\par
.\\start_scheduler.bat\par
\par
We expect to push out the Scheduler as a service in the very next release which will eliminate the need for this step.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\b\i\f0\fs28 Adding Servers and Computers to Process\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\b0\i0\f1\fs20 The final step in setting up DAD is to add systems to the list of servers to aggregate logs from.  To add servers and workstations, log in as an administrator.  Under the \ldblquote Maintenance\rdblquote  tab, select the \ldblquote Systems\rdblquote  option.  Enter all of the pertinent information including, most importantly, the NETBIOS name of the system that you wish to add.  Please also include a priority value of 1 or higher.  A zero will disable collection from the host.  Lower numbers (1, for instance) indicate higher priority.  Typically, we recommend setting DCs and Global Catalog servers as priority 1.  Domain Servers would be priority 2.  Everything else would be priority 3 or more.  Once you have entered the necessary information, be sure to select which logs you wish to collect from this system.  Finally, click on the \ldblquote Save as New\rdblquote  button to begin collections from that system.\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\pard\keepn\s1\sb240\sa60\sl276\slmult1\kerning32\b\f2\fs32\page\f0 Troubleshooting:\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\kerning0\b0\i\f1\fs20 1) Apache error log reports "PHP Warning:  PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library 'C:\\\\PHP\\\\php_mysql.dll' - The specified module could not be found.\\r\\n in Unknown on line 0"\par
\i0\par
\tab This error, when the php_mysql.dll is in fact in the C:\\PHP directory (and the correct version), is very misleading.  The actual problem is that "libmysql.dll" is not in the Apache\\bin directory (or otherwise in the Apache path).\par
\par
\i 2) I\rquote ve added a workstation (or workstations) to the list of systems to collect data from but nothing seems to be entering the database from these systems.  What\rquote s wrong?\i0\line\line This problem is caused, strangely enough, by the Windows Firewall.  Unfortunately, there is no simple granular control to change this behavior.  The simplest resolution is to either disable the firewall (not recommended unless you have some other firewall on there too) or to simply enable File Sharing in the Advanced settings.  We\rquote re not actually sharing files, but this seems to take in all sorts of SMB communication including the logs.  In the future, if we have the energy, we\rquote ll describe more specifically how this can be accomplished through Group Policy to only allow the DAD server to collect logs without completely opening up file sharing.  Of course, opening the file sharing ports doesn\rquote t actually share anything; it just makes the connections possible.\par
\par
}
 